**Linux Interview FAQs**

1. How to fix Application file system full issue? 
   - Check disk usage with `df -h` and `du -sh /path/to/directory`.
   - Identify large files or directories using `du -ah /path | sort -rh | head -n 10`.
   - Clean up unnecessary files, logs, or backups.
   - If necessary, increase the disk size or add a new disk.

2. You're running out of space on /var, which is an LVM volume. Walk me through the steps to increase the size of /var by 5GB. Assume a new disk /dev/xvdf is attached.

3. Boot Process: Can you explain what happens from the moment you power on a Linux system till you get the login prompt?

4. How do you ensure a cron job ran successfully? What logs do you check and how would you debug a failing cron?

5. A log file is growing very large, and logrotate is not rotating it. What steps will you take to debug and fix this issue?

6. When you are planning to patch production servers. What are the steps you take before and after patching?

7. One of your EC2 Linux servers is running slow. What Linux commands and tools do you use to troubleshoot performance issues?

8. Suppose you have received an alert stating that CPU utilization of any particular application server is high (85%). What steps will you take for this alert?

9. You deployed a web app using Nginx, but when accessing the site, you get a 502 Bad Gateway. How do you troubleshoot this?

10. What is the minimal network traffic flow when accessing a web application hosted on an AWS Linux server from a browser?

11. How to check the current run level and user?

12. How do you view the contents of a .tar.gz file without extracting it?

13. How do you check which ports are listening?

14. How do you list all running processes?

15. What will be the cron expression if we want to run the job every hour, every day in between 3–4 PM and twice in a day like morning 6 AM and 6 PM?

16. How will you check the security patches and severity?

17. How will you verify the severity and details of the patches for RHEL?

18. How do you apply security updates only manually? And also if you have to update all the packages?

19. What is the drawback or issue that may arise if you update all available packages?

20. How do you check if a reboot is required after patching?

21. How do you list the patches or packages updated recently?

22. Suppose you have updated one system and want to roll back to the previous state — how will you do that from the OS?

23. How do you manage patching for all environments — all servers in a single shot or part-wise?

24. Suppose your two servers are running behind the Load Balancer and supporting one application. During patching, how will you ensure the application does not go down?

25. How can you ensure the services that were running before patching are still running after applying security patches and rebooting in RHEL?
