Prompting to make AI systems more useful
Selecting transcript lines in this section will navigate to timestamp in the video

- Okay, so you sit down with ChatGPT or another AI system and try to get it to do something, but it won't. And at the same time, you watch other people are able to do really impressive things with it. And you wonder, how are they doing that? The answer is prompt engineering. And in this course, I'll walk you through a series of different advanced prompt engineering techniques that will help you do really amazing things with these chat systems. This is part academic research, part AI alchemy, and we have a lot of ground to cover, so let's get cracking!
- How to use the exercise files
- https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/advanced-prompt-engineering-techniques-3817061
  Selecting transcript lines in this section will navigate to timestamp in the video
- [Instructor] To make it easier for you to follow along and to give you the tools you need to experiment with these advanced prompt engineering techniques on your own time, I've created exercise files for this course. You can find them on GitHub. There are two important components to these exercise files. First off, there's a folder called Prompts, and here you'll find files for each of the movies. All the movies are in chapter one, and the files are named for the movie number, so two, three, four, et cetera. And each of these files contains a text example. These text examples are what you'll copy out and paste into ChatGPT or whatever other AI you're using, and you'll get the results. The reason why some of these movies have more than one example is because there are more than one example in that movie. The other file you need to be aware of is this one, links.md. This contains links to all the academic papers that back the different advanced prompt engineering techniques and demonstrating in this course. Some of these papers have really useful examples towards the end, so you can see how these techniques are applied in different ways. And in this list, there are also a couple of examples of GitHub repositories with more advanced buildouts of some of these techniques. As you go through the course, I encourage you to follow along with the examples in the Prompts folder. And when you're done watching the course, you can take any of these examples, modify them in any way you want, and use them as your own prompts in ChatGPT or in your other AI applications.