Zero-shot and few-shot prompting
Selecting transcript lines in this section will navigate to timestamp in the video
- Okay, so AI systems perform better if you give them reference material, just like humans perform better if you give them reference material, and you'll see this as kind of a red thread stringing through this entire course, better reference materials provide better outputs. Now we're going to look at the very top of the advanced prompt engineering stack, the two techniques that you're probably already using that you may not know are actually advanced prompt engineering techniques. They are zero shot prompting and few shot prompting. The reference to shot here has to do with how many examples you provide. So if you provide no examples, you just ask a question or provide some information with a question, then you're doing a zero shot prompt. But if you provide a pattern of some kinds, or question, answer, question, answer, then you're doing few shots. So each question-answer sequence is a shot. Let me show you how this works. In the exercise files, you'll find this file here or 01_02_zero_shot, and I'll just copy out the code here and then go into ChatGPT, open a new instance and paste it in. Now, the text that I'm providing here is a series of comments, and then at the bottom there's a question. So the question obviously relates to the comments. So that's the reference material in this example. When I send off this request, we'll get a response based on the information in the comments and the response will be a good response. You also see that it's fairly long and it doesn't necessarily conform to whatever standard we want. So let's say for example, I'm a pizza parlor, and I want to ensure that the response out of the AI system is consistent with my voice and tone, and that it always mentions the name of my pizza parlor in the responses. For that, I can use few shot prompting. In the exercise files you'll find an example of that here. So I'll copy this out and paste it into a fresh instance. I do this so there's no confusion between the previous prompt and this one. And if we look at this text, you'll see we have the same questions as before, only now we also have responses, and in the responses for every single response, I mention the name of my restaurant, Morten's Pizza Emporium. And when we go down, you'll see there are several examples of this question-response pattern. So when I then ask a question, the system will see, "Oh, there's a pattern here. I'm going to repeat this pattern and try to repeat it pretty much exactly." So if I run this query now, you'll see that the response that comes out contains the words Morten's Pizza Emporium, because that's now in the answers and it's answering in the type of language that the other answers have. That's the whole point of few shot prompting. You are showing the system a pattern, and the system will match your pattern. And this applies to everything you're doing. If you want the system to generate a list of a specific format, you can simply start the list and the system will be like, "Oh, you want me to continue the list? Okay. And it'll just continue the list." If you want to format or structure your content in a very specific way or use specific language, you provide examples of that and it'll continue the same examples, because this system is a language transformer and it's also a pattern matcher. And few shot prompting allows you to guide the system to match your patterns.